Exercises 12.2-1
Suppose that we have numbers between 1 and 1000 in a binary search tree and want to search for the number 363. Which of the following sequences could not be the sequence of nodes examined?

Exercises 12.2-2
Exercises 12.2-2 Write recursive versions of the TREE-MINIMUM and TREE-MAXIMUM procedures.

Exercises 12.2-4
Professor Bunyan thinks he has discovered a remarkable property of binary search trees. Suppose that the search for key k in a binary search tree ends up in a leaf. Consider three sets: A, the keys to the left of the search path; B, the keys on the search path; and C, the keys to the right of the search path. Professor Bunyan claims that any three keys a∈A, b∈B, and c∈C must satisfy a ≤ b ≤ c. Give a smallest possible counterexample to the professor’s claim.

Exercises 12.2-5
Show that if a node in a binary search tree has two children, then its successor has no left child and its predecessor has no right child.

Exercises 12.2-6
Consider a binary search tree T whose keys are distinct. Show that if the right subtree of a node x in T is empty and x has a successor y, then y is the lowest ancestor of x whose left child is also an ancestor of x. (Recall that every node is its own ancestor.)

Exercises 12.2-7
inorder tree walk of an n-node binary search tree can be implemented by finding the minimum element in the tree with TREE-MINIMUM and then making n − 1 calls to TREE- SUCCESSOR. Prove that this algorithm runs in Θ(n)time.

Exercises 12.2-8
Prove that no matter what node we start at in a height-h binary search tree, k successive calls to TREE-SUCCESSOR take O(k + h) time.

Exercises 12.2-9
Let T be a binary search tree whose keys are distinct, let x be a leaf node, and let y be its parent. Show that key[y] is either the smallest key in T larger than key[x] or the largest key in T smaller than key[x].
