Exercises 11.3-1
Suppose we wish to search a linked list of length n, where each element contains a key k along with a hash value h(k). Each key is a long character string. How might we take advantage of the hash values when searching the list for an element with a given key?

Exercises 11.3-2
Suppose that a string of r characters is hashed into m slots by treating it as a radix-128 number and then using the division method. The number m is easily represented as a 32-bit computer word, but the string of r characters, treated as a radix-128 number, takes many words. How can we apply the division method to compute the hash value of the character string without using more than a constant number of words of storage outside the string itself?

Exercises 11.3-3
Consider a version of the division method in which h(k) = k mod m, where m = 2p - 1 and k is a character string interpreted in radix 2p. Show that if string x can be derived from string y by permuting its characters, then x and y hash to the same value. Give an example of an application in which this property would be undesirable in a hash function.

Exercises 11.3-4
Consider a hash table of size m = 1000 and a corresponding hash function h(k) = ⌊m(k A mod 1)⌋ for  . Compute the locations to which the keys 61, 62, 63, 64, and 65 are mapped.


Exercises 11.3-5
Define a family  of hash functions from a finite set U to a finite set B to be ϵ-universal if for all pairs of distinct elements k and l in U, where the probability is over the choice of the hash function h drawn at random from the family . Show that an ϵ-universal family of hash functions must have

Exercises 11.3-6
Let U be the set of n-tuples of values drawn from Zp, and let B = Zp, where p is prime. Define the hash function hb : U → B for b in Zp on an input n-tuple [a0, a1, ..., an-1] from U as and let H={hb:b∈Zp}. Argue that H is ((n−1)/p)-universal according to the definition of ϵ-universal in Exercise 11.3-5.




